welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson a publisher columnist and
blogger andrew breitbart is the founder
of the Breitbart network of
investigative news websites including
Breitbart comm Breitbart TV big
government big Hollywood big journalism
and big piece big cosmos is surely on
the boards I need to have a big
synthesis and get it down to one portal
Andrews new book Andrew Breitbart new
book righteous indignation excuse me
while I save the world Andrew Breitbart
welcome thank you the liberal grows up
segment one you described in righteous
indignation a privileged upbringing in
Southern California exclusive schools
very comfortable circumstances your
parents were particularly political but
they were more or less conservative and
then this I'm quoting from the book
through some form of osmosis I
considered myself a liberal how come my
parents didn't fight for my to maintain
what it was they were teaching me
through their deeds and their acts they
are very silent generation I grew up
around with friends who had younger baby
boomer parents and they were very
forthright in their politics they would
go to their rock concerts that go to
their rock for Kampuchea they'd fly to
Philadelphia for live aid and I remember
my mother would watch a Lawrence Welk on
Saturday nights the juxtaposition oh the
juxtaposition that's not a hard choice
you always action it was and so as much
as I loved my parents the the flow
towards my friends and their parents way
of life and way of thinking was the most
natural thing in the world I loved my
parents but rejecting their orthodoxy
was simple once again from righteous
indignation of turning-point you're at
you're in New Orleans you're studying at
Tulane you're sitting down for a math
exam quote and you're not doing well I
started to consider that maybe years of
skating by recklessly expecting
everything to work out had been exactly
the wrong approach to derivatives nice
sentence by the way up
apparently I realize sometimes it
doesn't work out sometimes you do have
to make it work out which means that
values do matter close quote
Andrew you're raised in a conservative
family and come out a liberal you go to
what you called I don't have experience
of Tulane but I have no reason to doubt
it's any humanities department USA and I
hate to do this to Tulane because I'd
love to be invited back there to to
speak to the students to tell them about
an alternative I guarantee it lies in
your future at some point somebody will
fund a trip to Tulane but it's a liberal
it's an American University of its time
and you come out of that a conservative
how did this happen well you are
swimming again I wasn't I was an
American Studies major and I really did
think that when I chose that that it
would be reading about the Constitution
the found in the Constitution the
founding fathers Mark Twain and sort of
a benign approach towards the American
experience and I didn't realize this
until afterwards because I can say this
with absolute authority I had I not
graduated I had I not been given my
diploma it would have only been me to
blame my when in New Orleans do as the
New Orleanians I really did partake in
the culture down there and I can't
believe I did graduate but there was a
point where I already grow every night
for Andrew Breitbart it was and it was
as depressing as it was ecstatic and fun
it was just it was it was a it was a
prison of decadence and it was four
years of non-stop where people would
come and visit me from my former life in
Los Angeles and they'd leave saying it
was the best time of their lives and as
they did as they'd get on the plane to
depart the Bacchanalia I would whisper
under my breath please take me with you
because it just it was it was Groundhog
Day it was every single it was the
muscle but they were really it was the
Monday nights
it was the Monday nights when people say
do you want to go out I said now I think
I'm going to stay in and study and then
15 minutes later I'd go out and I'd meet
them so I really didn't I didn't
dedicate myself to academia it was only
after I graduated
I got a letter or an email I don't
remember the exact year I think it was
around 1994 asking me to assess my
degree you know it was it was self
assessment I saw an assessment of it and
I started to look through the books
wondering what was that
III what was that education and and what
I remember was to synthesize it
I've watched c-span my entire life and I
remember I've watched Noam Chomsky talk
in the strain George our linguist in
this jargon that is not accessible to
the average person and I remember
thinking to myself there was a period
there in my American Studies class where
I was hearing the word deconstruction
and semiotic sab it too many times
and and I'm like what's going on here
what is this language what are they
trying to do and I started to analyze
the courses that I took and I realized
that it was cultural Marxist cultural
Marxist theory like this is kind of
strange I thought that this was supposed
to be American Studies not German
Italian nihilistic theory so in a way
it's just as well that you were
debauched all four years I that's the
whole point of that chapter that I think
alcohol saved me um you go you I don't
want my own college-age children to hear
that line will I'll edit that line out
from the version they see after Tulane
you go back to Los Angeles and hand
scrape around you end up waiting table
you get a job as a courier at a
production company and an important
moment comes when you you know at the
man who will become your father-in-law
the comedian and actor Orson Bean known
to people of a certain generation from
to tell the truth none to people of
another generation from Desperate
Housewives and you at well here I'll
just quote to you from righteous
indignation one day I asked worsen why
he had Rush Limbaugh's book the way
things ought to be on his shelf I was
convinced to the core of my being that
Rush Limbaugh was a Nazi anti black
anti-jewish and Andy all things decent
Orson simply suggested that I listen to
him again and what happened when you
what was the 1992 election cycle and at
that point I thought I was a liberal and
I started listening to to rush simply
because my alternative radio station had
turned into a grunge rock festival I
loved Kurt Cobain and Eddie Vedder
so much that I switched to the am dial
out of desperation and so that's really
I have to thank grunge music for turning
me into a conservative and I remember
the first month or two thinking well I
may not agree with his politics but at
no point have I heard him intimate
anything that appears to be racist
sexist or homophobic and I started to
ask people around me have you ever
listened to this Rush Limbaugh creature
and they said yes he's a racist sexist
and a homophobe I said okay I need some
help here because I've been listening
now for months as I'm driving on la
freeways delivering scripts he's not
he's not and what I realized was is I
believed the core of my being that I had
listened to him if you had given me a
lie-detector test I promise you I would
have passed because with conviction the
culture the 60 minutes report on him all
of the things I had been told reflected
that negative stereotype but I in fact
had never assessed him myself and
recognizing that the mainstream media
doesn't necessarily tell you the truth
or tells you the truth from its
ideological standpoint became became
this panacea for me where I started to
challenge the mainstream media segment
to the Democrat media complex again from
righteous indignation Limbaugh like the
professor I always wanted but never had
created a vivid mental picture of the
architecture of a world that I resided
in but couldn't see completely the
Democrat media complex described the
architecture well it's the matrix I mean
it really for me it was if you've ever
been to Coney Island and you see those
Holograms where there's a picture of the
Empire State Building and you're
supposed to squint and you squint and
you squint you can't see it
but eventually you see the Eiffel Tower
and you're like I like and then once you
see the Eiffel Tower
you can't not see the Eiffel Tower and
through every day rush limbaugh
analyzing the source material of the
world the New York Times The Washington
Post CNN ABC CBS and NBC he was able to
create for me a very vivid picture that
the people who were allegedly objective
and neutral reporters and journalists
were the front line of the political
battle and they used their objectivity
as their greatest weapon because they
were telling young impressionable people
like me who believed in Woodward and
Bernstein and who believed in Walter
Cronkite wait a second you're telling me
that perhaps ideology played a role in
how they interpreted stories or how they
chose one story over the other and so
then the matrix said the Democrat media
complex became everything to me in fact
when discussing politics I always turn
it back to the complex it's always about
seeing the world and hoping that people
see the Eiffel Tower so this is you're
listening to Limbaugh in 92 during that
election cycle right and you read me
what I'm getting at here is who is the
Democrat media complex then and who is
the Democrat media complex now what's
changed what's changed uh than much has
changed actually and then that's the new
media yes that's the whole point of this
entire book right is that Rush took the
moribund a.m. dial and at the end of the
day was a media critic but he was a
relentless media critic and he was
exposing too he wasn't just working with
ditto heads if ditto heads were what
Rush Limbaugh were about they could care
less about just let him be and talk to
the yokels out there in the hinterlands
they're worried about Andrew bright
parts of the world people that would
actually listen to what he has to say
and awaken people so that they can see
that these people are using the media as
a way to reinforce
herd mentality within the culture and so
what I see now is they used to get away
with it
rush limbaugh took the moribund a.m.
dial and now it's a flourishing realm
where countless people from michael
medved to dennis prager to sean hannity
are showing people or granting people a
perspective or the alternative reality
from the mainstream media and Matt
Drudge comes along in 1995 and he tells
people hey look you don't need to have
an AM radio station which costs a lot of
money and you have to have a certain
skill set he said look if you have a
modem and a computer you can enter this
thing we're now 20 plus years into this
new media revolution and the difference
is is there is open media warfare now
between Katie Couric and the Rush
Limbaugh's and the Matt drudges of the
world we are a polarized nation this is
a civil war well based upon
communication okay so let here's let me
take here again quoting from righteous
indignation i you i Andrew Breitbart
I'm at war with the mainstream media I'm
at war with the mainstream media because
they portray themselves as objective
observers reality when they're hacks who
think they can destroy everything
America stands for but shouldn't you
relax things are working out things are
working out there's fox news there's
Rush Limbaugh audible that's not enough
that's not enough that's not enough this
is what angers me so about that that's
what I want to know why whatever John
we're relaxed we're 20 years into it
just as you said 100 okay I'll take a no
it's not an option Sega's AM radio an
op-ed column and Fox News is not enough
the big what do you want what I want I
want a center-right nation to fight for
its soul and its soul is represented in
the arts its soul is represented in in
in a world in which media is everything
AM radio is the lowest form of
communication it's it's it's it's it's
tinny it's not it's it's it's not robust
it's not avatar I want avatar I want the
right to enter the world of media to the
extent and invest in media the way that
the left as George Soros is throwing
money like crazy you want an NPR I want
everything I want us I want all right
they have an NPR they're so slick and
understanding how important media is
they've convinced the government to pay
them to propagate their worldview how
come we're not fighting for money to
propagate our world because we don't
believe in ok then use the free market
to convey the same ideas with the same
level of sophistication and excellence
that NPR does because they are superior
at what they do just as John Stewart is
superior at what he does
I grant Hollywood and the the experts
not in propaganda for what they do
without good effect that's what annoys
you that it annoys me and annoys that
our side does not commit to this battle
all right segment three let's go through
your the background of your life here in
fighting this fight that you've just
described righteous indignation I
intentionally co-created this is a
little tricky problem for you Andrew I
intentionally co-created the Huffington
Post I Andrew Breitbart intentionally
co-created the Huffington Post in order
to grant the hard left a place in the
blogosphere to express itself okay
explain yourself
I had been Arianna Huffington's
researcher up until the point where she
converted on a dime one day were you new
Arianna when she was still conservatory
she dug up Larry Lawrence from Arlington
National Cemetery Thank You Arianna Tara
Lawrence Larry Lawrence was editor Clint
ambassador from Switzerland
Clinton's number one donor and he
granted him a waiver to be in Arlington
National Cemetery he had never even been
in the Merchant Marines so she had her
credential that's games that's right and
I enjoyed being with her when she was a
conservative but I walked out the door
when she switched to the left she came
to me five years later five years of
awkward air kissing at parties that we
would run into each other she came to me
after the 2004 election cycle and said
do you have any ideas for a website and
she had a money guy and we came up with
the plan and it was to create this place
where if we could get your friends who
you couldn't afford to write for you too
for you for free it would be
exceptionally helpful to you you'll be
the queen of the left wing blogosphere I
said but from my standpoint right now if
you want to hear what the actual left
has to say not Katie Couric pretending
to be neutral what the left has to say
all there is on the internet in 2004 is
the daily costs where a Peter Robinson
could write an op-ed Bush is the
equivalent to Hitler under a pseudonym 2
live crew 3 3 3 3 7 8 and that
constituted a transparency within the
media where will an opaque miss where
these people could write these things
and and and costs himself was being put
on Meet the Press
so I said Arianna you can become the
online the salon that you have at your
house you can put online and it worked
it but the idea was and I said this to
any number of brand name people that I
have in my life from the radio this is
this is going to be crazy because I've
gone to young America's Foundation you
know events and I've talked to these
kids and they know me to be the real
deal I mean what I say and I say what I
mean and I'm conservative but I think
this is going to be helpful for
conservatives because it will be source
material and the first day that it
launched and I was worried about posting
Huffington Post launched I was driving
up Lincoln Boulevard worried because I
was getting emails from people saying
how could you do this and I listened to
Michael Medved on the first day that it
launched reading aloud Rob Reiner 'he's
first day post where are the Woodward's
and Bernstein's of today to take on
George Bush and he was howling and I was
howling in the car and I was tearing up
just thinking this guy this guy this
meathead guy who wants to add a pat you
know a dollar you know to every
cigarette pack to pay for lettuce
patches or something
this incoherent guy proved my point and
within six I left within a month and I
remember one point this is my favorite
moment during Katrina
Randall Robinson at The Huffington Post
wrote an article two days into the
flooding that black people were
cannibalizing each other in New Orleans
and and Drudge put it up on a link at
the Drudge Report and within 24 hours
ariana called me up and she said you won
I said what do you mean you watch us
we retracted the story so I want this
was this was I swear I'm a mischievous
guy I I to a great extent I was more
inspired okay Andrew 20 years or
whatever it's been 15 years later who's
winning in the Internet you've got
Arianna just sold the Huffington Post
she's continuing to operate it from AOL
moveon.org daily cut these are still big
yeah
you've got your enormous number your
number who's winning well I think that I
thought about God riveted and
libertarian and now I think look the
media still left-of-center and they're
trying to buffer up their waning
enterprise their waning monopoly by
giving three hundred and fifteen million
dollars to Arianna Huffington is AOL
coming to me saying wow you've got this
audience of the center-right it wouldn't
dawn on them because it is the war that
I've described
who's winning well monetarily they still
are controlling the majority of the
pieces but there's still something
second-class second-rate wealthy
cultures of course but what we are
winning tactically because you know
Hannah Jane Hannah Giles and James
O'Keefe took down acorn with a high
quality video series that cost less than
$1,400 which sends a message to the
average kid out there that if ABC CBS
and NBC are not going to cover things
and and act as a checks and balance
against progressive organizations
against the afl-cio
against the SEIU acorn other community
organizing groups then we can do it
ourselves and we're having an effect
going around the main the Democrat media
complex a bluff over it or right
straight forward and my business model
is to aim every one of our expose
straight at the mainstream media and say
Katie Couric you are being dared not to
cover this
all right segment for the theory of
which you have more in this book than
I'd expected righteous indignation a lot
gets explained here Marx and Hegel had
paved the way for the progressives who
in turn had paved the way for the
Frankfurt School who had then attacked
the American Way of life by pushing
cultural Marxism through critical theory
there's a lot going on there very
briefly what's the Frankfurt School and
why should anyone watching this
interview care ok first of all anyone
that reads this book is going to get is
going to laugh and they're going to cry
and they're going to get Andrew in all
of his zany different modes but there's
one chapter that is like putting the
medicine in the sherbet in order to get
your kid to take it in order to get rid
of his his fever and to me my one
discovery my one great epiphany my one
aha moment that I said I I got it I got
it I see what exactly happened with with
in this country the Frankfurt School
were Emma grace from Romeo's
well what Germany in there was a it was
the equivalent of this the Hoover
Institution what the Hoover Institution
is to Stanford University the Frankfurt
School was a think-tank at the
University of Frankfurt and they were
social scientists like a bear market
Antonio Gramsci Horkheimer Adorno these
were all a bunch of guys in in the
middle of World War two had suffered
Europe in Europe you know two world wars
in a row and they had been fighting you
know they had been fighting the Nazis
and they were trying to figure out
another aspect of how to affect how how
to spread Marxism around the world you
could go to Bolivia you could go to
Bulgaria and you could go to the peasant
class and you could say let's let's flip
this place the Marxist Alleman argument
of getting the workers to get upset at
the owners it was very easy but not in
America where the middle class was
invested in in their their productivity
invested in the concept that they could
have their own small little American
dream a white picket fence
that they could invent something and go
from one generation being dirt poor to
being an owner within a very quick
period of time and what these guys
figured out when they came to the United
States and Adorno is the one that drives
me the most crazy he came out to
California um and I think was Berthold
Brecht the the East German playwright
moved to Santa Monica
in the 1940s at the height of the Golden
Age think about this these guys left
these guys left Nazi Germany and
Mussolini's Italy to come to California
in the 1940s and they lived by the beach
and they were depressed by the
relentless cheeriness the productivity
and the capitalism that they witnessed
around them and they came up with a
eight they came up with at the end of
the day I we could call it cultural
Marxism but at the end of the day we
experienced it on a day-to-day basis and
by that I mean a minute-by-minute
second-by-second basis its political
correctness and its multiculturalism and
what it took was this amazing concept of
yerba Sunim where everybody comes here
and contributes to this this you know
everybody becomes an American and
contributes but we have a common culture
we have a common border a common mindset
what they did was take the haves versus
have-nots friction and translated it
into a oppressor versus the oppressed
and and it has got taken up by faculties
across the country that's at the point
of the Frankfurt School yes progressive
they haven't erased by sixties post
structuralism demux post structuralism
queer studies african-american studies
all that all of that is pitting people
against each other it is anti-american
to its core if Mark ooza was the coating
again from righteous indignation if more
Cuza was the Jesus of the new left then
Saul Alinsky was his Saint Paul again
let me just put it to you simple terms
who's Saul Alinsky and why should anyone
watching this interview care well
Hillary Clinton wrote her senior thesis
on Saul
and skid wellesley we barack obama is an
acolyte of saul linski he created the
concept of community organizing and what
he did as I argue in this book is he
took all of this ethereal claptrap this
noam chomsky like jargon that the
average person couldn't understand
Herbert Marcuse is very hard to read
right it's all it's all ha it's all
impossible to read but he was able to
translate this cultural Marxist down to
a series of rules and a mindset a
warrior mindset where the critical
theory was like take on your enemy take
him directly on destroy that person he
applied critical theory down to the
street war level and I would argue that
the Katie Couric's of the world the
Chris Matthews of the world Rachel
Maddow and Keith Olbermann unbeknownst
even to themselves are studied in the
tactics of vilensky segment 5 the
Breitbart pragmatic primer for realistic
revolutionaries righteous indignation my
transformation from empty-headed hard to
believe you however empty-headed but
will let you get away with that my
transformation from empty-headed pop
culture infused talking points parroting
liberal to new media warrior took me for
decades but those years in the
wilderness taught me some basic rules
that I've applied steadily in
steadfastly and that are bearing
tremendous results close quote so you
then present your own rules to answer
Saul Alinsky's rules don't be afraid to
go into enemy territory what do you mean
by that I can't tell you how many people
tell me don't go onto the Bill Maher
show um take it right to them oh it's
the best I or and first of all I've had
my greatest successes because I live in
West Los Angeles a my life is taking it
to them I live in West Los Angeles I
live amid you know the Hollywood rubble
and when I do a Bill Maher show and I go
to Starbucks the next morning and the
barista says I saw you on TV last
night and I didn't like how the audience
was booing you before you finished your
sentences and I thought that you made an
interesting point nobody nobody sought
me out
to reclaim me on behalf of my parents
not even my parents I tripped upon
conservatism my goal is to go out there
and find someone else like me who'd
never even known what conservatism was
and say hey you know maybe I can draw
you in I try and do it through mirth and
humor a lot of the times and in addition
to the the investigate investigative
stuff that I do I mean when I say
confront these people head-on I mean I
went down to the anti Koch rally on
rollerblades and a camera to get them to
that was your stuff that was your film
well the well though Christian Hartsock
was there and I was there and we both
captured unbelievable you know Pro
violence rhetoric let's let's string up
Clarence Thomas what these progressives
had to say just terrible terrible stuff
be open about your secrets be open about
your secrets that's one of your rules
what do you mean I they're going to you
know I talked about how I drank a lot in
college it's not a huge revelation I
don't think I drank more than the
average person that was in New Orleans
at the time but I always wake up at
night thinking that the Alinsky i'ts you
know the the CID Blumenthal's of the
world the Fenton communications of the
world the media matters of the world the
John Podesta the world's are going to
find what your Achilles heel is and
they're going to exploit it and so why
not throw it out there Barack Obama did
exactly that when he wrote in one of his
books that he used that he experimented
with drugs you have to do that because
they're going to find it if you own it
and you talk about what you learned from
that experience or you show that you're
human and not try to pretend to be a
perfect public you know entity I think
that you're going to be you're going to
fear zillion times better ubiquity is
key what do you mean
Oh with the Acorn thing I this was a
rare opportunity James and Hannah come
to me with this thing Hannah - just out
of college weren't
well yeah James is 25 Hannah was 20 at
the time so she had not completed
college and not gone to they'd gotten
untape acorn to go ahead tell the story
tell it briefly though they posed as a
pimp and a prostitute trying to start by
using government funds in many cases
through a and to get that tips on how to
avoid paying taxes from ACORN
Obama's you know vaunted community
organizing community organizers acorn
and get all this stuff on yeah in every
office except for one it was service
with a smile and they knew that they
couldn't go to ABC CBS or NBC in fact I
actually went to ABC again gets
government money right they get
government money I knew that this was
almost violently important information
though oh my gosh it was sort of like
back when Drudge did the Lewinsky thing
this is going to cause heads to roll
this is going to be a big deal how do I
get this out there I guarantee you even
in 2011 my putting that out there at big
government.com alone and hoping that it
goes viral would not have been the
successful strategy they would have SiC
their lawyers the DNC acorn I don't even
know okay Kirkland and Alice they would
have looked back there was a lot back
and shut it down the bowl was to try and
make sure that as many people got there
were vested in showing this one thing I
found about the conservative movement is
there are a lot of people are hyper
competitive people that you would think
that would be friends with each other
our balloon competition they believe in
competition and they fight so well let's
uh you know you can if you're going to
let so-and-so over at that station have
an access to that video then then we're
not going to put it on our station and I
was like okay you guys this is a once in
a lifetime opportunity to show a story
that the mainstream doesn't want you to
see and ubique it ubiquity is what made
a corn go down not that it was on a blog
site you've got more rules but our time
is limited final question what do you
mean in your pragmatic primer for
realistic revolutionaries and
indignation by believe in the audacity
of hope' well I'm my business partner
hates this about me because every now
and then I will compare myself to Don
Quixote because he doesn't like the
agent will yeah that's right but I do
believe that is that that many of the
things that I've accomplished have had
you know such as taking on the complex
what what most of am talk radio does
simply criticizes it from afar when I
saw what they did to Clarence Thomas and
you juxtapose what they did to Clarence
Thomas next to anointing Bill Clinton
for exhibiting the same behavior that
they claimed that that Thomas was guilty
of when you see how they treat the Tea
Party their default racists they have to
disprove their racism I believe that the
organism the natural organism that is
the Democrat media complex behaves
oftentimes in an evil fashion my goal is
to destroy the mainstream media as we
currently know it so that it is more
equitable so that it is more fair it
seems like an outrageous goal I'm not
sure that there's a business model
that's going to make it so that I'm
going to have Rupert Murdoch like money
but I hope that my children's generation
exists in a more fair and equitable
media and the first thing that we're
going to have to get rid of is this fake
declaration of objectivity and
neutrality that is a big lie we need to
move towards something that is a more
mature version of what we have now more
like the UK in Britain the newspapers
are avowedly left-right and right you
know what you're going to end there
mature about it we are just going
through the adolescent phase of
recognizing that objectivity was the big
lie of the latter part of the 21st 20th
century Andrew we have to close because
you have to get in a car and drive up to
Marin County for an event promoting
righteous indignation following your own
first rule don't be afraid to go into
enemy terror
told you Andrew Breitbart author of
righteous indignation thank you thank
you for uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson thanks for joining us